# Development Log

I want to keep notes of interesting things I learn as I go on to develop this
project.

## 08/12/2023

### TIL how to connect containers together using docker compose and nginx

I used one nginx service to route the requests, another one to serve the web
client, and in the third service I ran a node app that exposed an endpoint. The
web client then was able to send requests to this endpoint and get a reply.

The ingress service that is used to direct requests to the correct services
needs to be configured via nginx.conf file. The syntax seems quite complicated,
but it's an old tech and I expect finding answers will be easy.

To manage the request we need to decide what path will be considered an API call
e.g. `/api/exchange/` and then forward it to the correct service, in this case
the exchange-service. It's important to remember to remove the part of the path
we used to identify the service and redirect with the path to endpoint. So for
example `/api/exchange/rate` becomes `/rate` when it gets to the
exchange-service. Which is one of the endpoints it exposes.

On a different topic, I tried to do local development using docker containers to
be closer to the production environment, but failed. I think for now I will
stick with the normal dev servers options.

I added a call to [freecurrencyapi](https://freecurrencyapi.com/) inside the
`exchange-service` to fetch exchange rates for currencies. It was very easy to
integrate and has a generous free tier.

## 09/12/2023

I'm going to add authentication to the app. It seems that the most sensible
approach is to protect the whole app at the ingress level. It will take care of
all the current services and the ones we may implement in the future.
To do this the nginx that we use as reverse proxy\[ยน\], before forwarding
requests to corect service has to consult the new `auth` service, that will
determine if the request is authenticated or not. When ingress receives OK from
the `auth` service in will forward the request following the rules in
nginx.conf, otherwise it will return 404 for endpoints and redirect to login for
client requests.

\[ยน\] This just means that it controls access from the Internet to a computer,
rather than from computer to the Internet, the way a direct proxy does.
